what can we do about the risk of mercury
and lead and
metals that is bombarding us all the
time worrying about it doesn't bring a
solution what we need is a safe gentle
long-term key later of heavy metal that
will help us to bind and excrete heavy
metals and toxins from our body I want
to go now to the mid 80s many of us
remember the terrible nuclear accident
in Chernobyl one of the results of this
accident is that many children were
suffering from high reading of
radioactive material these children were
given pectins large molecule pack things
that stay in the digestive tract pectin
is a long chain of sugars a long chain
of galacto monic acid that is present in
the peel of citrus fruits like oranges
and grapefruit and lemons and these
pectins were able to reduce the
radioactive readings by up to 50% when I
read this research I came with an idea
if I can take regular pectin modify to a
smaller size and the right structure so
it can get absorbed into the bloodstream
it can serve as a gentle cue later of
heavy metals on an ongoing basis over
the years we have conducted a number of
studies that have shown indeed the
effectiveness and safety of modified
citrus pectin as a key later of heavy
metals we've also shown that when we
combine modified citrus pectin with
modified alginates
which have a similar structure they have
a synergistic effect both in the
bloodstream is valid in the gut and
therefore they can prevent the
reabsorption of heavy metals which can
be excreted into the gut but then get
reabsorbed and therefore we need a much
lower dosage to have a chelating affect
both modified Pickton's as well as
modified alginates belong to the same
roof that is called poly urinates and
poly urinates are known to create heavy
metals through a mechanism called the
egg box mechanism the mechanism is just
like many layer
of an egg box that trap the positively
charged heavy metals and have a much
higher affinity for heavy metals that
they have for regular minerals such as
calcium and magnesium and zinc so the
first step in our research was to indeed
show if we can indeed increase the
excretion of toxic heavy metals in the
urine without increasing the excretion
of normal essential minerals we took
seven subjects and we collected the
urine for 24 hours and analyzed it for
heavy metals we then gave them modified
set respect him at the doors of 5 grams
three times a day and collecting the
urine again for 24 hours on day number
one and on day number 6 and what we saw
is a significant increase in the
excretion of mercury of lead of arsenic
of cadmium without increase in the
excretion of calcium and magnesium this
specific research was done in
conjunction with the USDA under an NIH
grant and was published in their
peer-reviewed journal phytotherapy
research in late 2006 the last study
that was accepted for publication in
early 2008 was done on a group of
children in China with toxic levels of
lead these children were hospitalized
because of the toxic lead levels when
the use modified it respecting for three
to four weeks there was a dramatic
decrease in the blood levels of lead and
a dramatic increase in the excretion of
lead in the urine this is truly exciting
because there are many children who are
exposed to lead I'm especially happy
about it because here is something that
can offer a solution and support to us
and individuals were concerned about
heavy metals but also to parents were
concerned about heavy metals in the
children